application-templates/connected-product-foundation/README.md, before:

# Connected Product Foundation

The [Connected Product Foundation](https://docs.losant.com/cpf/overview/) (CPF) is a prebuilt and production-ready template that significantly reduces the development time and complexity for your Losant applications. The CPF provides a wide variety of out-of-the-box functionality required by most IoT products and services. This includes:

* Multitenancy
* User Management
* Device Management
* Data Visualization
* Event Management
* White Labeling

## Setup

This template creates a ready-to-use application with example devices, recipes, customers, sites, and users. This template also includes a data simulation workflow and a workflow that generates events based on the simulated data. To begin using the CPF, the following setup steps are required:

1. Set a password for the CPF's system admin. Navigate to **User and Groups** using the left navigation. Click the `system-admin@example.com` user from the list. Click the **Change Password?** checkbox and provide a secure password.
1. Enable the **Simulator** and **Check Thresholds** workflows. The simulation workflow replays device data from the `TurbineEngine.csv` file once a minute and records that data to the example Turbofan devices.
1. Set a secure value for the `cpf-jwt-password-reset-secret` [Application Global](https://docs.losant.com/applications/overview/#application-globals). This secret is used to sign tokens as part of the forgot password process.

The CPF can now be accessed using your application’s default [Experience Slug](https://docs.losant.com/experiences/domains/#experience-slugs) (e.g. `<YOUR_APPLICATION_ID>.onlosant.com`). Once you navigate to that URL with your browser, you’ll automatically be redirected to the CPF’s log in page (/login) where you can login using your system admin's email and password.

For more details, please review the [CPF User Guide](https://docs.losant.com/cpf/user-guide/).

## License

Copyright &copy; 2024 Losant IoT, Inc. All rights reserved.

Licensed under the [MIT](https://github.com/Losant/losant-templates/blob/master/LICENSE.txt) license.

https://www.losant.com

Commit message:

CPF: added event filter by date. Added new user invite flow. Added library template version for existing applicatons.

application-templates/connected-product-foundation/README.md, after:

# Connected Product Foundation

The [Connected Product Foundation](https://docs.losant.com/cpf/overview/) (CPF) is a prebuilt and production-ready template that significantly reduces the development time and complexity for your Losant applications. The CPF provides a wide variety of out-of-the-box functionality required by most IoT products and services. This includes:

* Multitenancy
* User Management
* Device Management
* Data Visualization
* Event Management
* White Labeling

## Setup

This template creates a ready-to-use application with example devices, recipes, customers, sites, and users. This template also includes a data simulation workflow and a workflow that generates events based on the simulated data. To begin using the CPF, the following setup steps are required:

1. Set a password for the CPF's system admin. Navigate to **User and Groups** using the left navigation. Click the `system-admin@example.com` user from the list. Click the **Change Password?** checkbox and provide a secure password.
1. Enable the **Simulator** and **Check Thresholds** workflows. The simulation workflow replays device data from the `TurbineEngine.csv` file once a minute and records that data to the example Turbofan devices.
1. Create a JWT Service Credential called `User Password Reset`. Provide an Issuer (usually your domain name) and enter a long, random, secure value in the Secret field. This secret is used to sign tokens as part of the forgot password process.

The CPF can now be accessed using your application’s default [Experience Slug](https://docs.losant.com/experiences/domains/#experience-slugs) (e.g. `<YOUR_APPLICATION_ID>.onlosant.com`). Once you navigate to that URL with your browser, you’ll automatically be redirected to the CPF’s log in page (/login) where you can login using your system admin's email and password.

For more details, please review the [CPF User Guide](https://docs.losant.com/cpf/user-guide/).

## License

Copyright &copy; 2024 Losant IoT, Inc. All rights reserved.

Licensed under the [MIT](https://github.com/Losant/losant-templates/blob/master/LICENSE.txt) license.

https://www.losant.com
